All right, so continue here in sort of our common text field, which we created the bottom here, but
it's being called inside of our search bar.
On action here, meaning when we are when users types search and come here and they want to add something,
the keyboard will show up right and at the bottom, we will have this next or arrow button there.
So that means that when they click that we want to validate and do what needs to be done in order to
take this information.
In this case, the city name, they have just entered and do something with it.
So this is all captured here in the keyboard actions, meaning what action they have done after they've
right, after they've added something.
We want to capture that and move forward.
OK, so here is where I'm going to do something like this.
I'm going to say if because I want to validate or check if whatever was entered is valid, if it's not
in this, it's not valid.
And I can do that because remember, I have this remember variable that created there, which validates
really returns, whether it's true or false.
If we have if the search query doesn't have anything right and this is not what I want to let me, I
don't know what what happened there.
Let's say Dot.
He's empty.
This shouldn't be inside.
That's why it's OK, let me move all of that.
Putin said of a lambada and pacing like this.
Let's say is not.
Empty like that.
OK.
That sort of want.
All right, so back here, if it's not valid, meaning it's empty in this case, I'm just going to return.
Like this?
So this case us, we turn nothing into the case, which means that it's validated, then I'm going to
invoke the on search, right, which is what we passing here, right?
And we're going to pass a string that was going to be coming from our text field, pass that along.
So when I pass the search query state value, of course, I'm going to trim it so that we don't have
excess of things that we don't want.
All right.
And then once that happened, I'm going to just use it and search for state and value just to clear
everything up.
I'm just going to put an empty string like that.
So what that means once we click that next to enter or whatever, you know, our keyboard, we're going
to clear our text field.
That's what we're doing there.
And once that is done, we want to make sure there are keyboard controller.
Look at that.
And I'm going to say hide so we can hide our keyboard controller, which means I need to safeguard it
with the exclamation point like that.
And that's it.
And I do realize that we took a long time, and I do realize that we took a long time to put this together,
but it's important to do this way and not trying to do the other way because number one, we have these
capability of reusing this code.
We're using this composable.
And number two.
It just makes it much easier to extend our search bar if we want to add, for instance, in this column
here.
Another common text we can add as many as we want.
So think in those terms?
Always very good.
So now we have a search bar fairly ready to be used.
OK, so I'm going to call this inside of our search screen, which is going to be here.
All right.
Inside of this column, I say search bar.
I see Search Bar.
There we go.
And then I'm going to pass a few things, let's make sure that we don't have a different search bar,
right, because we are using the experimental experimental composer UI.
We also have to annotate that whatever it's calling it, let's pass a modifier here.
Actually, before we do that, that means we have to allow this to have a modifier that makes sense.
And I'm just going to say modifier like this as a default one.
Very well.
So now I'm going to be able to pass that modifier.
Said, I feel Max width
and I'm going to give a padding of about 16 dpi all along.
And I want to align everything by saying alignment, compose alignment.
Of course, I want this to be center horizontally like that.
Very good.
Now the beauty also because is a search bar.
And remember, because we have these on search and is the last parameter and it's a function of our
search bar.
It means we can use, yes, you guessed it, we can use a lambda trailing lambda.
That's the beauty.
And if you do that, it can see we now have this it implicit variable that is passed around, which
in this case is going to be whatever is inside of our text field because we're passing it along, right?
So have a search here.
When we call it here, we're passing our query value.
OK, so we can use that, we can do whatever we want.
So let's go back to where I'm calling.
There we go here.
Let's say logged for now, and I'm just going to pass this idea like this, which is going to be like
I said, whatever users have entered.
All right.
OK, let's see if this is going to work this.
That's the whole point.
Let's run this.
All right.
Let's click Aha!
Look, how beautiful this looks, great, wonderful.
All right.
Instead of Seattle, let's say San Diego, my wife's favorite place ever.
Let's go and say, enter.
OK, it's clear.
Now let's go to our Logcat and San Diego is showing they're beautiful.
This is exactly what we need.
Remember, the idea is as follows when we hit enter or next year, our keyboard, we want to be taken
back to our main screen.
You can go like this.
Try again.
Main screen like this and we are going to get, for instance, San Diego what users have entered, and
we're going to repopulate this entire main view with the new city.
That is the idea.
But one thing at a time we were able to pass along or get that information.
In our search, which is good, and now we are going to be able to then take that information.
In this case, the city name and pass it along back to our main screen.
Now how do we do that?
How do we then get this city name from our search back to a main screen, whether navigation lights?
So it looks like we have an issue here or not sure why outright we have to add experimental even here.
Let's do that.
OK, because we using that experimental API, we have to.
Anywhere we call it.
This also has to be called or added right to the the annotation.
Now we have to change the way we have set up our main screen because the idea again, is to get that
data, the city that was added and go back to our main screen and repopulate the main screen with the
new data with the new CD.
So in this case, here we need to pass the variable.
We need to pass a data through our composable.
Right?
And in this case, with our navigation, so to do that, it's it's fairly simple, but we have to restructure
a few things.
So back to our weather navigation here.
In our composable where we have this main screen, what I'm going to do, I'm going to get it out of
there.
So when, say, Val route or I want to say whether screen screams I see as you see there and I'm going
to say main screen that name.
So essentially, I'm going to remove this.
I removed is and put it there.
So now I'm going to call this out like this same thing.
Nothing new.
But what's not new or what is new, I should say, is that now I'm going to put that inside of double
quotes to say it is a string because I want to append something else.
So I'm going to say dollar sign to have the variable.
And then I'm going to say forward slash and curly braces as such.
And inside I'm going to pass the city variable like this.
What that means is as follow when we call this route here, this main screen we're going to have, just
like we have on the web, right?
We have, for instance, that we have W Google Dot Com and then forward slash and we can have, for
instance, I don't know, city name like this is equal to Spokane or Seattle.
OK, so that stadium?
So what are we doing here?
We're passing this city name or city variable along so that we can then pass something when we receive
something from our text field, then pass that variable along, hopefully with some data.
That's all we doing here.
OK.
Well, it's not the whole picture yet, but that's the idea.
OK, now once we have that, we have to do something else because in our composable here, if you go
over, you will see that we can pass other things other than just the route.
We can pass the arguments that can pass the blinks and so forth.
Right.
This is good.
This is helpful.
That means then as a parameter or an argument, in this case, I'm going to pass the arguments no pun
intended.
Of course, I did not know that.
It's called arguments.
All right.
And in this argument here, it's actually going to be a list of something.
It's arguments that argument arguments like this.
OK?
It's going to be a list of because we can pass a list of arguments.
But we just going to pass one.
But in this case, they always allow us to pass.
Actually, they want us to pass a list.
That's no problem.
Now we can't just pass a list like just a string.
We need to wrap it around a navigation argument.
OK.
So say now I've already made all of this is given as we see there.
We can just use it.
And I argued it allows us to pass in this case, a string and Inov and in nav argument builder to build
around that argument that we passing around because all of this.
Remember, we are putting all of this infrastructure together because we are one to make sure that this
works with the navigation system.
OK.
All right.
So for the name.
Well, what is the name of this variable going to be passing?
Well, it's going to be City has to be exactly the same where we chose here.
This could be monkey could be dog you.
You know anything you want, but it has to be the same.
Consistency is very important.
OK.
So this is also Alhambra.
We can just put their trailing lambda to say, then we need to pass the type that we passing here.
So in this case is going to be a string type.
OK.
Now, swing type, what that means is we need to specify what kind of objects in this case, what kind
of values, what kind of pieces of data we're passing because you could pass a list of something you
could pass an object, you could pass all sorts of things.
In this case was saying, we want a string type, which is exactly what we passing is just a string.
That's all.
All right.
OK.
It's looks complicated, but it really isn't that complicated.
All right.
Now inside here, then this is where we were before.
This is we've seen before this way.
So you see here we have this implicit nav back stack entry, which is just a variable.
That is, what can we get right from our arguments, actually from our composable?
So what this allows us to do allows us to do many things, such as getting the arguments and so forth.
What I mean by that is as follow.
So I'm going to actually add a name, call this nav back like this so we can use it to do what do we
need to do?
So now I'm going to say nav back stack entry object, and I'm going to say arguments.
Look at that.
It's a bundle, which means it's another structure, another class that are class that allows us to
bundle up pieces of data and you can see the naming.
It's very important, right bundle bundle of data just to think of a package that will contain other
pieces of data inside.
That's exactly what it is.
So we're creating through our nav back stack, we say, Hey, let's go ahead and put together this bundle
of a box that we can put all these pieces of data.
That way we can pass that along.
And whoever gets it, they can open as a present Christmas present and they can get data.
That's exactly what's happening, really, guys.
Nothing really too fancy.
OK.
So we have the arguments.
Wonderful, then we need to continue and say, Get string.
Now why?
And how do I know with his string?
Well, I just said here the type we're passing is a string type.
Right.
Therefore, it has to be a string.
When I retrieve that information, when I went to retrieve that data.
Right.
So I need to pass the key.
What is the key?
A city.
So I say City again, has to be the same name.
Otherwise, it's not going to work.
All right.
So once that happens, I'm going to use the lat block.
OK, this light block allows us to run the code that will take advantage of whatever is being passed
along.
So this case here when we get that string?
Well, in this case, we passed the key.
That means we're going to get the value.
So where is the value?
Well, the value is going to be in this block.
Again, as the string there.
Huh, interesting, right?
All right.
That means that I can take all of these other code we had before and pass it all there.
Now the great thing here, the look, how beautiful this is, the great thing here is that now because
I have this it, by the way, this is what it is again.
What is it?
Well, is it is the value, the key value that we are passing along?
Which is needed because we need that back to our main screen, right?
So to facilitate here, I might.
In fact, I'll just leave as it, but I for want.
I can just say city like that.
Let's just say City.
I think that's that's appropriate.
OK, so have the city, the actual city, the actual value.
Not right.
And so now I'm going to pass it along on main screen because remember, the whole idea is that main
screen retrieves or gets in that city that was added, you know, a search screen, right?
That's why we're doing all of this.
But how do we pass it along?
Well, we say comma and we pass a city like that as an argument, and I'm going to say City.
Which city is this one?
Now it's going to complain because they're going to say main screen doesn't know what cities.
Of course he doesn't because we haven't added it.
So let's create parameters, city and it's OK.
Just added like this should be good.
OK.
And that's it.
This is how you pass parameters past data through your composable.
Let's go to main screen.
You notice in our main screen now the beauty, because we added at City.
Look at that and it's Nullarbor.
Let's open up like this.
What we can do.
Look how cool this is.
All right.
I just can't help it.
I can see logged.
So you can see, OK.
And it's and then again, just CD like this.
Let's just wrap it with a tag.
That's totally fine.
We don't mind that.
Let's run this in now.
You can see when we go to search, add something, go back to main screen.
We're going to see the city that was just added.
Let's see.
Oops!
Looks like we have a problem.
What seems to be right, the problem here is as follows, it says that navigation this nation that matches
request main screen cannot be found in navigation graph route splash.
OK, so if we go to our splash screen, the reason that's happening is because we've changed a few things
actually right in our composable.
But remember that the main screen is actually called somewhere else, because if you look at let's go
to our splash screen, I think that's going to help.
If you look at our splash screen, you will see that after a few seconds, it will say knife controller.
And then we go to main screen as such.
So now he's saying, Well, yes, I can go there.
But the problem is that you've said that when I navigate to the main screen, I must pass some sort
of city, right?
Because that's what I've said.
That's why we have an issue.
So for now, I'm just going to put a default seat.
So I'm going to say plus and the way we do this, we are going to put a forward slash like this and
put, say, default city, which I haven't created yet.
So at the top here, I'm just going to say, wow, the fourth city, you say.
San Diego like that.
Now this is going to work.
All right.
Does it make sense?
And we have to add it this way because remember, all of these routes are being seen just like links
in web development.
So we need to put forward slash and then default city like this.
OK.
That's right.
And you can see.
OK, it's working perfectly.
Now, it's not saying San Diego here is because somewhere along the way we actually changed this to
say Maputo, in fact, I know exactly where that is.
If you go to the main screen, we added Maputo here.
OK, so that's fine.
OK, now here's the thing.
Let's go to search and I'm going to say Seattle hit enter.
And if I go back.
Let's see if I see.
Right.
Actually, in order for this to work, I'm getting ahead of myself here when we navigate.
Let's go back to our search screen for you to see exactly what are we getting?
Right, I'm not doing anything here, all I'm doing, I'm just saying search, screen and enter.
That's not what I want to do.
I want to actually navigate back to our main screen.
That makes sense.
So all I do, I say now I've control it because I have access to enough controller and let's say, navigate,
remember to get the root string one like that.
And then I'm going to say whether screen's right or enum.
Whoops.
Let's see.
And name, they say, whether screens.
Main screen, that is that name, and I'm going to do the same thing we did on a splash screen, I'm
going to spend our friend there was just added right and it's going to be our city.
Now, in this case, here we see a string or it.
I'm just going to say, Am city like this?
Wow, I like that.
So this is what's going to happen.
So we click on search.
We add the search.
In fact, let's just run and see how this will work.
OK, let's go.
I'm going to say Seattle hit enter Whyalla.
We went back.
If we go to Logcat, there is Seattle in from our main screen.
Very cool.
If I change to, let's say, Moscow.
You should see Moscow.
There.
Look how easy things get now in our main screen.
We said we got the city from army, from our screen in this case, our.
Search screen, that means then I can take this city and added here dynamically.
I look at this look how easy this will look now I say City.
Like that?
Looks like it needs some wrapping to string.
Sure.
Voila.
OK, look, what's going to happen when I run this?
Now, the first default is going to happen because from here, it's going to go and voila.
San Diego, why San Diego?
Because, you know, a splash screen, we said, well, default seat is going to be San Diego when they
first come in.
We have to have some sort of defaults, default city, which is exactly what happened because we passed
that along in our navigation.
Wonderful.
It's working.
Now check this out.
Let's go to search.
I'm going to say Moscow.
Why not?
Because we can click.
We go back.
There we go.
Moscow and everything changed now because the way we've set everything up.
It goes ahead and says, get weather data passes in the city.
Now the city is indeed the city that we've just added, right, you know, search bar and pulls in the
information about Moscow.
If I go and say, let's say my portal like this, click.
Now it's my photo.
And while if I search for something else, I say Mumbai.
And goes back Mumbai and is getting the weather information for Mumbai.
Great.
It's working.
OK, I get it.
So this is a pretty long video, and I apologize for that, but I hope you were able to follow along
and see exactly the process right.
It took my time because I want you to understand exactly how we go about routing everything and passing
in data, passing in information from droughts and so forth.
OK.
And there you go.
It works.